.TH CARRIER-CLI 1 "2026-03-23" "Carrier 2.0.0" "Carrier Manual"
.SH NAME
carrier-cli \- streaming CLI for the Tox protocol using RDF Turtle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B carrier-cli
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B carrier-cli
is a streaming command-line interface for the Tox peer-to-peer encrypted
messaging protocol. It reads RDF 1.1 Turtle commands from stdin and emits
Turtle events to stdout, enabling composability with Unix pipes and scripts.
.PP
Part of the Carrier library and the Resonator project.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-profile " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to Tox profile file. Created if it does not exist.
Default: \fIcarrier_profile.tox\fR
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to configuration file.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-nodes " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to DHT bootstrap nodes JSON file.
.TP
.BR \-\-fifo\-in " " \fIPATH\fR
Read commands from a named pipe (FIFO) instead of stdin.
.TP
.BR \-\-fifo\-out " " \fIPATH\fR
Write events to a named pipe (FIFO) instead of stdout.
.TP
.BR \-\-pipe " " \fIFRIEND_ID\fR
Enter raw bidirectional pipe mode with the specified friend.
Stdin/stdout become raw byte streams over the Tox connection.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH TURTLE PROTOCOL
Commands are single-line RDF Turtle statements:
.PP
.RS
[] a carrier:TypeName ; carrier:predicate "value" .
.RE
.PP
.SS Input Commands
.TP
.B carrier:SelfId
Get own Tox ID.
.TP
.B carrier:Nick
Set nickname. Requires \fBcarrier:nick\fR.
.TP
.B carrier:FriendRequest
Send friend request. Requires \fBcarrier:id\fR and \fBcarrier:message\fR.
.TP
.B carrier:TextMessage
Send message. Requires \fBcarrier:friendId\fR and \fBcarrier:text\fR.
.TP
.B carrier:Save
Save profile to disk.
.TP
.B carrier:Quit
Shut down cleanly.
.SS Output Events
Events are emitted as Turtle statements to stdout with timestamps and
metadata. Types include: Connected, Disconnected, SelfId, TextMessage,
FriendRequest, FriendOnline, FriendOffline, Error, System, and more.
.SH EXAMPLES
Get own Tox ID:
.PP
.RS
echo '[] a carrier:SelfId .' | carrier-cli \-p /tmp/test.tox
.RE
.PP
Send a message to friend 0:
.PP
.RS
echo '[] a carrier:TextMessage ; carrier:friendId 0 ; carrier:text "Hi" .' | carrier-cli
.RE
.PP
Transfer a file via pipe mode:
.PP
.RS
cat file.mov | carrier-cli \-\-pipe 0 \-p alice.tox
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit (received Quit command or EOF).
.TP
.B 1
Error during initialization or runtime.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation: https://source.resonator.network/resonator/carrier
.SH LICENSE
MIT. Copyright (c) 2025-2026 Resonator LLC.
